Automated arithmetic module swap for timing (#7481)
The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD: src/rsz/README.md

| `-match_cell_footprint` | Limit equivalent cell list to include only cells that match library cell_footprint attribute. |
| `-all` | List all equivalent cells, ignoring sizing restrictions and cell_footprint.  Cells excluded due to these restrictions are marked with an asterisk. |

### Optimizing Arithmetic Modules

> The `replace_arith_modules` command optimizes design performance by intelligently swapping hierarchical arithmetic modules based on realistic timing model.

Reviewer: ...timing models (plural to match modules)

MACC (Multiply-Accumulate) Variants

Booth (default)
: Balanced delay and area.  Best for general purpose applications.

Base (Han-Carlson)
: Fastest, potentially larger area.  Best for timing-constrained designs.

#### Requirements for Arithmetic Module Swap

1. Hierarchical netlist with arithmetic operators.  Yosys can produce such designs by enabling "wrapped operator synthesis".
In OpenROAD-flow-scripts, this can be done as follows:

cd OpenROAD-flow-scripts/flow

make SYNTH_WRAPPED_OPERATORS=1

This requires a Verilog netlist.  DEF netlist alone is not sufficient for hierarchical optimization.

2. Hierarchically linked design.  The design needs to be linked to preserve hierarchical boundaries.  For example,

link_design top -hier

read_db -hier

```tcl
replace_arith_modules 
    [-path_count num_critical_paths]
    [-slack_threshold float]
    [-target setup | hold | power | area]
```

#### Options

| Option             | Type    |  Default |   Description                                                                        |
|:------------------ |: ------ |:-------- |: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  |

> | `-path_count`      | integer |  1000    | Number of critical paths to analyze to identify candidate arithmetic modules to swap |

Reviewer 2: this isn't really a path count, but an endpoint count

| `-slack_threshold`      | Slack threshold in library time units.  Use positive values to include paths with small positive slack. The default value is `0.0`, and the allowed values are floats. |

> | `-target`               | Optimization target. Valid types are `setup`, `hold`, `power`, `area`. Default type is `setup`, and the allowed value is string. |

Reviewer: Would you really swap operators to fix hold?

Reviewer 3: I don't know.    BK or Sklansky may be a possible candidate.   We can remove it later.

> | Option             | Type    |  Default |   Description                                                                        |
> |:------------------ |: ------ |:-------- |: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  |
> | `-path_count`      | integer |  1000    | Number of critical paths to analyze to identify candidate arithmetic modules to swap |
> | `-slack_threshold` | float   |  0.0     | Slack threshold in library time units.  Use positive values to include paths with small positive slack |
> | `-target`          | string  |  setup   | Optimization target: setup, hold, power, area                                        |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| Switch Name | Description |
| ----------- | ---------- |
| `-path_count`           | Number of critical paths to analyze to identify candidate arithmetic modules to swap. The default value is `1000`, and the allowed values are ints. |
| `-slack_threshold`      | Slack threshold in library time units.  Use positive values to include paths with small positive slack. The default value is `0.0`, and the allowed values are floats. |
| `-target`               | Optimization target. Valid values are strings from: `setup`, `hold`, `power`, `area`. |
```

Markdown format fix

Reviewer 3: Done.
